The traceview utility uses OpenGL to draw rectangles for each MPI
event, using a display format where the x-axis is time, and the 
y-axis is MPI rank.  To get fast response times, it is best if
traceview is built to run locally on your workstation or laptop.
It is also possible to build it as an X-windows application that
runs on a remote server, but then you would need an X-server with
OpenGL support, and the graphics will be much slower than a local
executable.  The viewer basically needs to be able to hold the
entire trace file in memory, so it is best to limit the size of
the trace files so that you can handle them on your system.

To build the "traceview" viewer, you need "glut" and the GL user
interface library "glui".  Many operating systems provide an
implementation of "glut", and you can build the "glui" library from
source available at:

https://sourceforge.net/projects/glui/

After ensuring that you have "glut" and "glui" development files, you
can modify the makefile to set the proper include paths and libraries.
A sample tracefile (laghos.trc) is included.  Different systems tend 
to organize the include files differently, and you may need to adjust
the code in traceview.cpp to ensure that the compiler can find :

#include <GL/glut.h>
#include <GL/glui.h>  // adjust the path as needed

After building the traceview executable, you can test it using the 
command : 

traceview sample.trc [enter]

Hit the "help" button for a brief description of the "hot" keys.
It is highly recommended to use "hot" keys for navigation in the
trace file, instead of the buttons on the small gui window.  The
other quite useful feature is to select a region to zoom into by
holding the right mouse button down while dragging the mouse to
the right, then release.


Note: The tracefile format is just a binary stream of event records,
      48 bytes per event.  The current version of the viewer will
      detect the byte-order and automatically swap bytes if there is
      a need to do that, so the tool should work with any endian order
      used either for trace generation or trace visualization.

